testing testing
testing testing testing testing testing testing
one two three four five this is Friday December
28th and we're in El Paso and I have the honor and
pleasure of chatting with Larry Francis class of
Larry to introduce yourself to anyone that might
hear this tape or read the transcription give a
biographical summary of you and your life before
you got to A&M. Where, what did mom and dad, what did
they do? Where'd y'all live? I was born in San
Antonio, Texas in 1933. My parents were born there
and my father worked for the General Electric
Company there and was transferred to El Paso in
1941 just for World War II. So I completed almost
all of my public education here other than the
first grade.
I went to grade school here and graduated from
Austin High School in 1951
and I did reasonably well as far as education marks
in school and and had decided though that I was
going to A&M probably in about 1939. Why? Because
my older cousin was in the famous class of 42. They
got his degree handed to him and he managed to stay
alive across the Pacific. And I have a picture in
front of their house in San Antonio in which he has
his little Aggie bag with the sticker on the side of
it, and I've got his hat on. So I knew I was going to
A&M, I guess, from day one. And I was very
fortunate. I, uh, I had never been outside
of El Paso other than to San Antonio, Texas a few
times to see relatives. I had been as far north as
Philmont Scout Ranch once, and my parents took me
to A&M and dropped me in my footlocker off that
afternoon, and that was a long way from home. What
did, as you recall, did anybody, mom or dad or
anybody else, give you advice? They probably
tried. and I probably thought I knew everything.
But as far as you mean when I arrived at A&M, I think
they expected me, number one, my parents were, my
dad started out life unloading refrigerators out
of boxcars for GE, and he was a clerk here, and he
became the branch manager, but we never had a lot of
money. I think about the main thing was they
expected me to do well. I had, as I say, I was in the
top 10% of my class at Austin High. They expected me
to do well at A&M, and I enrolled in electrical
engineering. They expected me to not spend any
more money than I. I got $5 a week to cover
everything, and I remember it was $50, I think, for
tuition. Uh, they expected me to stay out of
trouble and get a degree. Now, you had never
visited the campus before you went to... I'd never
been there in my life. ...before you went to
enroll. The only thing I knew about Texas A&M was
when I wrote off and got that manual, that book that
described everything. As you, about how long were
they there on that drop-off trip? Did you all spend
the night? No, we had spent the night in Austin,
Texas. And as I recall, I was supposed to be at
Sabisa Dining Hall at 10 o'clock on whatever
morning it was. We left Austin that morning early
and got there about 9.30.
I went in. There was a desk. I paid the fees. They
gave me a room number over in Walton Hall. We were
the first class back on campus, the freshmen from
Bryan. I said, I'm ready. Y'all might as well
leave. And they looked at me, and so by noon, they
were gone. And that's the last time I saw my guests
until Christmas when I came home. And there must
have been somebody then from A&M kind of come in and
tell you what to do. Well, the first one that there
obviously was people there at Sabisa that said,
well, now you're going to go through registration
and you're going to do this and that. I don't
remember too much about that. I do remember going
over and putting that footlocker in that room.
Now, I was fortunate. One of my high school
classmates was also my roommate at A&M. He didn't
finish there. And the first thing I remember was
that night when the two, the juniors in my outfit,
we had this meeting, I remember. And I thought, my
God, what have I gotten into down here? And that's
probably the first impression real
impressionable meeting i had now is this when they
explained to you they explained to me just how it
was going to be and
and as i recall and i was trying to think about this
there was probably 25 or 30 graduates of austin
high that enrolled down there at that time which
was quite a few i think we had more than any time
before There was probably another eight or 10 from
El Paso High. I think there was about seven or eight
from Isleta. And out of all of those, probably only
eight of us graduated.
When your parents drove away, how much money did
you have in your pocket? Do you remember? It wasn't
much. Probably no more than $10. My dad would send
me $5 in cash in an envelope. The MSC had just
opened. McKee had built it, and it had opened in
May. I didn't know Robert E. McKee built that.
Yeah. Marvelous. McKee built it, and it just
opened. There were two post offices. One was in
there. It's no longer where it was. It was up in the
front at that time. The other one is still the old
one at Northgate. Mm-hmm. And I had a box over at the
MSC, even though I was at Walton. I'd go over there
and get my five bucks on Friday. I'd get my
haircuts, everything out of that. Now, as far as
you recall, about what did it cost total to attend a
semester or a year? Room, board, tuition, books.
Books were, at that time, were about, it was just
about as expensive as anything. As I recall, it
seems like for a semester you could go to school
down there for about $500. As
you walked around the campus, describe the
campus. Well, it was at a process of change at that
time. The central part remains somewhat similar.
Out in front of the academic building, there were
two old buildings. One was Austin Hall where the
The ROTC headquarters was. It subsequently moved
to a building, and it's probably not there. They
called it the Trigon over near Rudder. It's still
there. Guyon was there. There was another one, a
sister building to Austin on the other side of the
main walk coming in. That one had just been torn
down. They tore Austin down, I guess, my sophomore
year. Electrical engineering was in Bolton Hall.
It's no longer there. and its mirror image was a
civil engineering building. Nagel. Nagel. The
old M.E. building and shops, and that's probably
the first time we all got in trouble, and I don't
know how we lived. The M.E. shops were over there,
the old sawtooth kind of factory building. A
classmate in my outfit freshman year, Buck Gay,
climbed up on the water tower to paint it one night,
and believe it or not, fell off. And went right
through the roof of the M.E. shop. That was that
asbestos board. Left an outline, hit the floor,
and he's still alive. In
that footlocker, what kind of stuff did you bring
with you? I didn't have a lot. That was one of the
reasons that people like me went to A&M. You didn't
have to have a lot of clothes. So I've often thought
about that. I had maybe a couple of sports shirts
and a pair of pants outside of underwear and
toiletries.
I'm not even sure that I had a heavy coat of any kind,
because I remember everywhere I went, I had to wear
that big old wool coat. And describe your room,
what you and your roommate created. Well, it was
one of those that, Walton's still there, and I
don't know when it was built, but it was kind of a
unique, and there was a couple of them on campus.
There were two rooms and a bath between the two
rooms. So instead of one big common bathroom, you
had a And they were poured kind of marble floors and
tile walls, and you had a bunk bed arrangement, a
steel bunk bed, two desks, and two chairs, and that
was it. Were you allowed to have a radio? Yes, I
think we were, except it had to be off. by a certain
time. You know, we came back, freshman year, you
had to start studying right after, I think it was at
seven, you had to start studying. And lights out, I
think it was like 10 or 10.30, something like that.
And of course, in electrical engineering, that's
all I did was study. Now, you registered by
standing in line at Sabisa? At Sabisa. How did you
decide what courses to take? Who advised you?
Well, as I recall, that was all predetermined. If
you said you were going to study electrical
engineering, they say here's what you have to
take. In fact, it was in that book. One of the things
that my children, two of them went there and I've
often discussed with them and now my
grandchildren hopefully are going to go there.
They allowed us to take a lot more hours than they
take now. I remember I used to take a minimum of
about 17 or 18. I think one year I took 21. The reason
I'm chuckling, the typical student today thinks
that 12 hours is a full load and that 15 is a heavy
load, and therefore they don't expect to graduate
in five years. They don't. Maybe five and a half.
And I tell them, no, our parents are going to kick
our fanny if we didn't finish in four. Oh, yeah. I
stayed on, I got a master's degree there. And I
graduated in May and stayed on with summer school,
both sessions in the fall and the spring, and got
out with a second degree a year later. And that
fall, do you remember any of those first year
classes? Were any of those important to you?
Describe some of those people, some of those
courses. I remember the chemistry class that I
hated dearly because the lab was on Friday
afternoon, starting at 3. And if you want, my wife,
who I had started dating in junior high, went to
TSCW, which was considered the sister school. I
had no car or anything, so on Friday evening, once a
month, I'd hitchhike all the way to Denton. Well, I
couldn't do that with that chemistry class. And,
you know, the mechanical drafting. I must have
lost 20 pounds down there because mechanical
drafting was in the barracks south of, just at
Southgate almost, well down below the stadium.
And, you know, you'd have a class at the academic
building. Then you had to be down there carrying
that. We had those fishing tackle boxes with all of
our drafting tools carrying your T-square. And
away you'd go. And
physics. I liked physics. I remember that class. I
remember we had a mechanical engineering class of
some kind. I forget what it was. It wasn't
mechanical engineering. I enjoyed all those
classes. And I made the best grades I made at A&M my
freshman year. I made straight As my freshman
year. What was the key to making those good grades?
I had never studied so hard, and that's one of the
things I think that A&M did. You know, it was called
Huntsville on the Brazos and this, that, and the
other. There was nothing else to do. And if you
were, if you, I knew I had to get that degree. My
cousin had gotten a degree, but out of that huge
family of ours on both sides, I was the second one in
that whole family that got a degree. And I had to get
that degree. So I studied. Were there any of those
teachers that first year that you now realize made
a dent in your heart or your brain? A lot of them. And
the irony is one of them was Dutch Dillingham. His
younger brother, who was a lot younger, is a very
good friend of mine, still alive, Mike
Dillingham, and we go to all the football games. We
have season tickets. And that's kind of an irony,
because Dutch was involved in the first radio
broadcast of a football game.
But he was very good. You know, I don't remember too
many of the math professors, freshman, well, I
think we took algebra, and I don't remember too
many of those. In those days, you didn't have very
many instructors. You had the professors. In
chemistry, we had an instructor, and I think in
math, we had an instructor.
I remember the mechanical engineering, I mean,
civil engineering. That's what it was. We took
surveys. I remember going around that campus, and
I forget his name though, but he was a great guy.
We had a lot of good professors over in the
E-Department in those days, Hallmark. And did you
engineering majors think that you were the cream
of crop? Was there a great pride in the
engineering? Well, maybe some of them did. I guess
I never gave it that much thought. I think we, I
think the engineering majors thought they
studied more than the rest of them, but I don't know
that we thought we were any smarter than the rest of
them. What was your outfit? What outfit were you
in? Well, I was in the Air Force, and I was in,
originally in, and I forget the outfit number as a
freshman. We were up in, as I say, in Walton. Then I
was in Squadron 14. Did it have a nickname? In those
days, we didn't. And then my junior year, I was on
the fourth group staff. And then I was going to be
the CEO of the fourth group. But my wife, who was a
lot smarter than I was, graduated from college in
three years with a teaching degree. So that
summer, we decided to get married. And she taught
high school in Bryan, Texas. In fact, taught
Travis Bryan III in the first grade. Really? Oh,
my, my. So we rented a house first from old man
Lauderstein, and then from Chris Gronemann, who
was head of the industrial engineering
department, built some new duplexes south side
there. So I was in what was called the day ducks my
senior year. Back to your freshman year, when did
you and your buddies get introduced to A&M
traditions? When did they line you all up in the
hallway and start explaining things to you and how
it was going to be and what was going to happen?
Well, that was the first night. Describe that.
Well, you know, they got us at attention. And, of
course, none of us really knew how to get And they
were screaming at us, and they were hollering at
us. And they went through all of this about what we
were going to do and what we weren't going to do, and
that we were the most ignorant people in the world.
We weren't going to walk on the grass. And it went on
and on and on and on. And
I think what I saw, my older cousin who had
graduated used to come home in 39, and I remember
they beat their rear end constantly down there. I
think I was prepared,
and so it didn't bother me as much as a lot of them
left within two or three days.
Did you ever think about leaving? I wanted I told my
dad when I came home Christmas I said I uh this is
just too tough and I think I want to come home and he
says well you can think all you want but you're
going back that's your that's your only option so
that was the best thing that ever happened I
enjoyed my time at A&M right now you didn't have
that freshman year particularly you didn't have
any troubles with grades Explain why you did so
well that first year academically. You know, I
don't know why. I think my makeup is I'm kind of
persistent. And there was a very close friend of
mine. His father was in the Isleta school system.
He was our class salutatorian at Austin High.
Brilliant. And he was in my outfit, too, from here.
And his grades were terrible, and he had to leave.
He ended up going to the University of Virginia,
and I never heard about him again, but I assume he
did quite well. He just wasn't, he wasn't smart.
Just didn't fit. I think there was a lot of them were
in constant fear, though. Now, was there any
circumstance, any event or situation that first
semester or first year where you needed to go seek
advice from anybody? No. I
don't think in the four years I was there. I only had
one time that I almost got kicked out of school. I
was in the Ross Volunteers.
and they you know it was they beat our butt one night
at a party and the administration heard about it
and there were about 10 of us sitting on we thought
this was going to help on blocks of ice in the
restroom in the dorm and they came in and of course
did an inspection and caught every one of us and it
took them about three days you know because they we
were we knew if you allowed it to happen it was much
your fault as oh okay and we I thought we were all
gonna get kicked out of school who was the
president during that time Harrington did you
ever have a class with him by chance no see he goes
way back to class of 22 his wife's still living Ruth
from Plano, and the Harrington family in Plano was
almost the key, key family of what was then a little
bitty country farming town, because I lived in
Garland until I was 10, only about eight miles
away, and they had the farm oil dealership, a
furniture store, and they were also the
morticians, so that... They were everything. The
coming and going, they took care of. At that
hazing, though, Well, did they beat you all for a
purpose or was it just part of the initiation?
Well, it wasn't even an initiation. We had a beer
bust. The RVs marched, I don't know if they still
do, in the King Rex Parade as the honor guard and we
came back from that and we had this end of the year
kind of April beer bust somewhere off campus. You
were a junior? I was a junior. And the seniors
decided it was time that, and that, it was just one
of those things. What kind of paddles did they use?
Big boards, you know, the ones that are cut out.
About a one by six? No, no, they're, yeah, well,
they were one inch lumber, you know, cut. about
that long and do you remember about how many spats
did everybody get oh about six or seven something
like that and then did all of the sophomore i mean
all the juniors yeah but only about six or eight of
us for some reason got caught the other ones either
disappeared conveniently or i don't remember
what happened did that did the administration
call y'all in oh yeah and told us that you knew what
the consequences were. All right. According to
the administration, you should have just
refused. Which would have meant? you wouldn't
have been accepted you're not going to do that and
they knew that i think they were just trying to put
the fear of god into it let's see back to uh back to
that uh that freshman year though oh there was a
picnic by the way you go back to battalion at that
time it would have been in uh 19 spring of what 54.
They had a big cartoon on the editorial page of us
sitting on blocks of ice.
Now Jim Earl's not one of your contemporaries, is
he? Cadet Slouch? Yeah, he started while I was
there. They live not far from us and we see them
quite often. Back to that freshman year, did they
haul you all out in the hallway and give you
lectures and Well, they couldn't call us in the
hallway and walk. Oh, that's right. Well, where
did they, yeah, where did they? They had that day
room up there that they got us all in. And that's
where you'd hit a brace? Yeah. What kinds of things
did they make you fish do? Oh,
what was it? We were always doing something.
Push-ups? No, you know, there wasn't that much of
that.
Things were, one of the things I've noticed,
they've kind of formalized or made this more in the
Corps. These push-ups they do, things were kind of
laid back. Cadet Slouch epitomized the Corps in
that day. We were always running errands and for
those guys, cleaning their room. I don't know how
many times I had to clean that guy's room. Describe
for your fish year your routine on a class day. What
time did you get up, what did you do when, and when
did you finally get to go to sleep? Well, you get up,
as I recall, I think about 6 a.m. And you get cleaned
up, shaved,
and out in formation. to march to every meal. Boy,
that got old, especially when it was raining, and
it rains a lot. And in those days, we had those
ponchos. We didn't have raincoats. We had those
doggone ponchos, and they called them pisspots,
the helmet liners, and your uniform.
And we'd march up from the dorms down below Walton,
and we'd march over to Sebesa. for breakfast. Now,
a lot of the guys who just couldn't get up in one of
that extra 10 or 15 minutes would have on nothing
but underwear. And if it was raining hard, the
upperclassmen were about as out of it as we were,
and they wouldn't see. And the way we'd go, you'd
come back and clean up your room. And by then, it was
time for your 8 o'clock class. Now, when did you
clean up that upperclassman's room? Oh, usually
at night. Oh, okay. And I did, you know, my roommate
and I cleaned that guy, PJ. Well, I'm not going to
say. Anyway, we cleaned his room. Neat guy, really
was. And he was a little baddie rooster and
immaculate. Uniforms, you know. And after about,
I remember it was just before Christmas, we'd had
about enough of that. So we both filled trash cans
with water, went over there in the middle of the
night. He didn't lock his door, walked in there and
dumped it all over him and took off. Of course, he
found us real quick because we dropped the ash cans
and he knew who they belonged to.
And what punishment did you get then? Oh, he had us
out. The bull ring, they called it on Saturday,
marching tours. and we had to clean the room even
more, and we were always running errands. But you
didn't mention a paddle or anything like that? You
know, I never got my butt beat at A&M other than at
the RVs. I'm glad you mentioned that. Now, there
was a lot of them that did, but the guys in the
outfits I wore, What other kind of good bull do you
remember when you were a fish that you or anybody
else did? Oh, gosh.
What do I remember? I remember going over to UT in
Austin my freshman year before the game, and then
about six of them, I think, decided after a few few
too many beers. Of course, we were only eighteen
years old.
Going over there and painting their fountain or
something. Now, I didn't go, and they got caught,
and they came back to school all shaved and painted
orange.
You know, I can remember going up to see my wife,
who's now my wife, and I never had any money. And I
loved to go up there because they had good food at
the time, I thought. And Tom Dahlheit, who went to
Isleta High, was on the track team here at Isleta,
was on the track team at A&M. He went up there with
me. And we never had any money, and we'd come back on
Sunday hitchhiking. We got as far as Waco.
Somebody gave us a ride to Waco, out in the country
south of Waco. We were waiting for another ride,
and we were starving to death. Tom was raised on a
farm. He looks over the fence, and here's a bunch of
chickens. He says, I'm going to fix this lunch. I
said, what are you going to do? He went over that
fence and grabbed a chicken and wrung its neck,
plucked it, and then went under the viaduct there
and built a fire roasted that chicken i almost
threw up i
mean that's how poor i guess we were i don't know in
hitchhiking how long did it normally take you to go
to or from then oh at least five hours and where was
the hardest place to get through dallas or fort
worth well we'd go through dallas no but i mean was
it hard to get a ride through dallas
I don't recall it being that hard. I think the
hardest place was getting out of Denton
sometimes, and a lot of times you'd get to Waco or
someplace and have a hard time getting home. I
remember two or three of us were picked up on the
north side of Dallas one Sunday morning about 9
o'clock by a guy in a big Cadillac. Turns out he
wasn't a very savory character, I don't think.
And, you know, we wore our uniforms. He thought we
were stupid.